=pod

=head1 NAME

Syntax::Feature::Sugar::Callbacks - Add sugar for declarative method callbacks

=head1 VERSION

version 0.002

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use AnythingExportingMethodModifiers;
    use syntax 'sugar/callbacks' => {
        -callbacks => {
            after   => {},
            before  => {},
            around  => { -before => ['$orig'] },
        },
    };

    after  foo ($n) { $self->something($n) }
    before bar ($n) { $self->something($n) }
    around baz ($n) { $self->something($self->$orig($n)) }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

You probably won't use this extension directly. That's why it doesn't even
have an C<import> method. Its main reasoning is the ability to provide
on-the-fly sugar for method declarators, most commonly C<before>, C<after>
and C<around>. This extension will directly dispatch to the original
subroutine, and requires these to be setup before-hand. Currently, all
callbacks will first receive the name of the declared method, followed by
the code reference.

Note that no cleanup of the original handlers will be performed. This is
up to the exporting library or the user.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 install

    $class->install( %arguments )

Called by L<syntax> (or others) to install this extension into a namespace.

=head1 SYNTAX

All declarations must currently be in one of the forms

    <keyword> <name> (<signature>) { <body> }
    <keyword> <name> { <body> }

The C<keyword> is the name of the declared callback. The C<name> can either
be an identifier like you'd give to C<sub>, or a double-quoted string if
you want the name to be dynamic:

    after "$name" ($arg) { ... }

The signature, if specified, should be in one of the following forms:

    ($foo)
    ($foo, $bar)
    ($class:)
    ($class: $foo, $bar)

Variables before C<:> will be used as replacement for the invocant.
Parameters specified via C<-before> and C<-middle> will always be included.

The statement will automatically terminate after the block. The return
value will be whatever the original callback returns.

You can supply subroutine attributes right before the block.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 -invocant

Defaults to C<$self>, but you might want to change this for very specialized
classes.

=head2 -callbacks

This is the set of callbacks that should be setup. It should be a hash
reference using callback names as keys and hash references of options as
values. Possible per-callback options are

=back

=item C<-before>

An array reference of variable names that come before the invocant. A
typical example would be the original code reference in C<around> method
modifiers.

=item C<-middle>

An array reference of variable names that come after the invocants, but
before the parameters specified in the signature. Use this if the code
reference declared with the construct will receive a constant parameter.
There is no current way to override this in the signature on a per-construct
basis.

=item C<-default>

An array reference of variable names that are used when no signature was
provided. An empty signature will not lead to the defaults being used.

=item C<-stmt>

By default, anonymous constructs will not automatically terminate the
statement after the code block. If this option is set to a true value, all
uses of the construct will be terminated.

=item C<-allow_anon>

If set to a true value, anonymous versions of this construct can be
declared. If no name was specified, only the code reference will be passed
on to the callback.

=item C<-only_anon>

If set to a true value, a name will not be expected after the keyword and
before the signature.

=over

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item * L<syntax>

=item * L<Devel::Declare>

=back

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to bug-syntax-feature-sugar-callbacks@rt.cpan.org or through the web interface at:
 http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Syntax-Feature-Sugar-Callbacks

=head1 AUTHOR

Robert 'phaylon' Sedlacek <rs@474.at>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2011 by Robert 'phaylon' Sedlacek.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

